2012 DSE English Language Paper 3 Part B2 Data File - OCR full text

Page 1

Part B

Situation

You are Nicky Leung. You work for Cultural Commons, which is a non-governmental organisation, an NGO, in Hong Kong. Cultural Commons helps people from different countries who come to live in Hong Kong. Your organisation is planning a Fun Day for a local community. Your boss, Manjula Pillai, has asked you to do some tasks.

You will listen to a recording of the weekly podcast programme Bookmark. In the podcast you will hear an interview with author Lionel Chan.

Before the recording is played, you will have five minutes to study the Question-Answer Book and the Data File for Part B1 and the Question-Answer Book and the Data File for Part B2. Remember you must choose to do the tasks in either Part B1 or Part B2. Do NOT attempt both Parts B1 and B2.

Complete the tasks by following the instructions in the Question-Answer Book that you choose and on the recording. You will find all the information you need in the Question-Answer Book and Data File that you choose and on the recording. As you listen you can make notes on page 3 of the Data File.

You will have five minutes to familiarize yourself with the Part B Question-Answer Book and the Data File.

Contents

Page

1. Listening note-taking sheet for podcast programme Bookmark ................................................ 3
2. Email from Manjula Pillai to Nicky Leung ............................................................................... 4
3. Extract from a Nepalese teenager's blog .................................................................................. 5
4. Extract from Isobel Tait's article 'A Review of Research into Body Language' ....................... 6
5. Article from Living in Hong Kong newsletter .......................................................................... 7
6. Appendix of statistics from Lionel Chan's research article Tracking Hong Kong Newcomers ... 8
7. Article from the Kowloon Herald, 15th February 2012 ........................................................... 8
8. Cultural Commons webpage .................................................................................................... 9

2012-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-2


Page 2

Listening note-taking sheet for podcast programme Bookmark

Listen to the weekly podcast programme Bookmark, which features an interview with Lionel Chan.

Take notes under the headings on the notesheet:

Fun Day details

Body language

Lionel Chan

Communication barriers

Practical difficulties newcomers to Hong Kong face

Lionel Chan's book 'An Immigrant's Song'

2012-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-3


Page 3

Email from Manjula Pillai to Nicky Leung

To: Nicky Leung
From: Manjula Pillai
Sent: 30 March 2012
Subject: Things to do

Dear Nicky

I've got three things for you to do.

We're going to carry out an online survey about barriers to communication in Hong Kong. Please write an introductory paragraph for the survey. Include:

- what a barrier is
- barriers related to the Hong Kong way of life
- the effects of each barrier or how people feel as a result

Don't mention barriers related to body language as we did that in another survey. Have a look at that 'Living in Hong Kong' newsletter article as a starting point.

We want to start a new advice page on our website focusing on a different area of communication each month. This month's focus will be on body language. Use the website template to:

- explain the problems associated with each aspect of body language shown
- give advice about body language related to each

Take a look at the extract from Isobel Tait's article 'A Review of Research into Body Language' as a starting point.

Fairfax Secondary School has asked us to write a short article for their school newsletter. It's a special edition for their Multi-Cultural Awareness Week. They want us to write about the practical difficulties faced by people from different countries who come to live in Hong Kong and the help available from the community in Hong Kong.

Please write the article. I found some statistics in one of Lionel Chan's research articles. Use that as your starting point. We've only been given space for 200 words so make sure it's about that length.

Remember that your notes from the Bookmark podcast will be useful for all of these.

Thanks for your help.
Best
Manjula

2012-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-4


Page 4

Extract from a Nepalese teenager's blog

hk bloggette.com

archives

January 2011
December 2010
November 2010

recent posts

School in Hong Kong at last...
I've been in Hong Kong for a month and tomorrow is my first day at school. I'm a little bit scared. But my mum says not to worry. That's easy for her to say!

Week 1: Nobody listens!!
Posted on February 1, 2011 @ 6:01 PM

Today the school secretary asked me if I'd had any problems since arriving in Hong Kong. I started answering her question but she just interrupted me with what she thought I was going to say. I felt like what I had to say wasn't important. This is how I felt:

[image of a person speaking to another person behind a barrier]

Week 2: My Body's Language!?!
Posted on February 10, 2011 @ 6:13 PM

There's some good news this week!! I sat next to a girl called Ka Man in class, but she told me to call her Carmen. She seemed a bit shy but she asked me about Nepal and how it is different from Hong Kong. Then, my teacher asked me to do a presentation about Nepal to my class next week. I'm going to show some photos and play some music too! I did a practice run and she gave me some tips about body language like paying attention to how I stand. She said that if I put my hands on my hips when I present I look over-confident - a bit arrogant. She told me to relax my arms and let them hang by my side... I think I need to practise ;-).

Week 3: New Friends
Posted on February 19, 2011 @ 11:43 AM

Success! I did my presentation! My classmates asked loads of questions and some classmates are going to lend me some Cantonese music and I'm going to lend them some Nepalese movies! The school social worker had a chat with me today after school and she told me about a local youth club run by Cultural Commons for all the kids in Sham Shui Po, including kids from different countries, like me. She said I can go next week after school on Friday - but I need to ask my mum and dad first. I'm so excited, I'll be able to make some more friends. I told Carmen and she's going to ask her mum too! I hope we can go!

Copyright © - All rights reserved - Web design by Damosuzuki

2012-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-5


Page 5

Extract from Isobel Tait's article 'A Review of Research into Body Language'

There is sufficient evidence at this stage to safely conclude that certain aspects of body language can have both positive and negative effects on the perceptions of others in a variety of contexts and cultures (Lo, 1999; Lo and Francis, 2001). It has even been argued that body language is the most important aspect of human communication (Duncan, 2004).

De Frietas (2006), for example, found that how people stand has a significant effect on listeners' perceptions of the speaker when giving presentations. She found that in a job interview situation, candidates actually failed the interview based on the way that they stood when asked to give a presentation.

Figure 1: Folded arms (Amocatchi, 2008)

Amocatchi (2008) conducted a survey, in which she showed over 1,000 different people a drawing of someone folding their arms. She asked them what kind of message they thought was being transmitted. The results can be seen in Figure 2 below. Amocatchi concludes that the best advice for listeners is to avoid confusion by reverting to a neutral position, i.e. with their hands loosely clasped in front of them.

Figure 2: Folded arms results of survey (Amocatchi, 2008)

Listening & agreeing: 43%
Rejecting & disagreeing: 40%
Not sure: 17%

2012-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-6


Page 6

Article from Living in Hong Kong newsletter

Imagine waking up in a brand new country. Have you ever wondered what that might feel like? This month, three recent arrivals in Hong Kong - Mina, Georg and Tariq - talked about their new lives in Hong Kong.

First of all, welcome to Hong Kong. How long have you been here and what are you doing here?

Mina: Well, Georg and I are students at Kowloon University and we've been here for three months.

Tariq: I'm originally from Oman and I've come to live with my grandparents and help in the family business. I've been here for two months.

Are you enjoying life in Hong Kong?

Georg: Yes, we all think it's a great place - for me, it's very different from Sweden which is where I come from.

We wanted to ask you today about communication in Hong Kong. Have you come across any barriers?

Georg: The pace of life here is so fast, everyone seems to be in a hurry and they don't seem to have the time to talk to you. So I guess time is a barrier.

Mina: I know just what you mean, like when I was in a shop last week, I was trying to ask about the price of something and the shop assistant wouldn't take the time to answer my questions. It was really frustrating.

Tariq: Frustrating for you, but ultimately businesses suffer because you end up going to another shop and the first shop loses custom.

Mina: Exactly.

Tariq: Noise as well can be a real barrier. I have had several instances when I've received a phone call when I was on a big busy road, like Nathan Road or somewhere, and I simply couldn't understand what was being said. On one occasion it was an important phone call about a job interview I'd attended and I just couldn't catch what was being said.

Is there anything that you've found difficult about living in Hong Kong?

Tariq: At first I couldn't find a doctor but then someone told me about some free clinics near where I live in Mongkok. There are four of them offering free clinics once a week.

Georg: Not really - sometimes I miss the food from home, but then I found a website which gave me information about shops which sell food from Sweden and a list of restaurants I can go to. It's great.

Mina: I love the local food, so it's not a problem for me.

Well, thanks for talking to us and we hope you continue to enjoy living in Hong Kong.

2012-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-7


Page 7

Appendix of statistics from Lionel Chan's research article
Tracking Hong Kong Newcomers

Nicky, for the newsletter article, we don't have much space so limit yourself to the areas where the majority of people have said it's a problem. Manjula

Appendix 11: Newcomer responses after 1 week in Hong Kong

Easy to find somewhere to live
% agree: 12
% disagree: 88

Local food is very good
% agree: 75
% disagree: 25

Enjoying sightseeing
% agree: 95
% disagree: 5

Easy to find a school for children
% agree: 17
% disagree: 83

Easy to find free medical care
% agree: 10
% disagree: 90

Using the MTR is easy and convenient
% agree: 84
% disagree: 16

Easy to find free legal advice
% agree: 18
% disagree: 82

Children have the opportunity to make friends
% agree: 13
% disagree: 87

Easy to find food from your own country
% agree: 86
% disagree: 14

Article from the Kowloon Herald, 15th February 2012

Lawyers step up

Local lawyers, Venny Wong and Theresa Lam, who both work at law firm Chan and Wang Legal Company, have taken the decision to provide pro bono services to newcomers coming to live in Hong Kong through a community-based legal advice scheme.

"We realised that there are some people who come to live in Hong Kong who need a bit of extra help," explained Venny Wong. "They arrive in a new country and face practical difficulties like dealing with immigration or finding legal advice for other matters. Often they can't afford that advice."

Both Venny and Theresa have decided to try to build up a network to encourage others to do more.

Theresa explains, "We're already talking to friends from other businesses to see if they want to help."

In fact, they've already had some success. Enrique Ramirez, an estate agent in Kwun Tong, is offering a helping hand. "We provide a commission-free service to help newcomers to find somewhere to live in Hong Kong. So far we've helped about 20 families," he explained.

Government organizations are also doing their bit to help. The Hong Kong Tourism Board has recently produced a new MTR map for tourists and newcomers. "It will help people new to Hong Kong find their way round so they can shop till they drop," a spokeswoman announced.

2012-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-8


Page 8

Cultural Commons webpage

Cultural Commons
Services for Newcomers to Hong Kong

Home | About Us | Contact Us | Body Language Advice | Help | Search

Newcomers to Hong Kong

Cultural Commons

Life Events

Finding a Job
Raising a Family
Having a Baby
Retirement
Planning
Changing your Address

A to Z Services
Index
Frequently Asked Questions
Your Comments Matter!

Services for newcomers

New to Hong Kong? We can provide the help you need. We offer the following services

For Newcomers to Hong Kong

Written translation of formal documents from foreign country
Interpreter service (e.g. for phone calls or for formal interviews)
Form filling service (e.g. forms from Education Bureau, HK taxes etc)
Child care services for working mothers
Introductions to local sports teams (adults and kids)
Important contact numbers (e.g. for social services)
Sightseeing guides for Kowloon and the Outlying Islands

Cultural Commons has recently moved to a new office in Larch Street. Click here to see map.

Other Useful Sites

Hong Kong Immigration
Welcome to Hong Kong
Hong Kong taxes: Newcomers to Hong Kong 2012
Foreign Credentials

THIS IS THE LAST PAGE OF THE PART B2 DATA FILE

Sources of materials used in this paper will be acknowledged in the Examination Report and Question Papers published by the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority at a later stage.

2012-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-9
