Page 1

Part B

Situation

You are Indy Wong. You are a museum assistant for Lara Gau at the Hong Kong Social History Museum. Lara has a few things she wants you to do to help out.

You will listen to an interview between Patty Leung and Dr Jack Jones for the podcast Nosing Around.

Before the recording is played, you will have five minutes to study the Question-Answer Book and the Data File to familiarize yourself with the situation and the tasks.

Complete the tasks by following the instructions in the Question-Answer Book and on the recording. You will find all the information you need in the Question-Answer Book, the Data File and on the recording. As you listen you can make notes on page 3 of the Data File.

You now have five minutes to familiarize yourself with the Question-Answer Book and the Data File.

Contents

Page

1. Listening note-taking sheet for podcast Nosing Around ................................................ 3
2. Email from Lara Gau to Indy Wong ............................................................................. 4
3. Staff manual on borrowing of items ............................................................................. 4
4. Minutes from museum staff meeting ............................................................................ 5
5. Email from Ip Lai Ping from the Shun Yee Tak Village Hall ........................................ 6
6. WhatsApp messages from the Social History Museum group ........................................ 7
7. Transcript of interview with Wang Chung Village resident ........................................... 8
8. Article from Hong Kong News August 30, 1983 .......................................................... 9
9. Question Wizard online survey results of museum visitors ........................................... 9
10. Email from Ms O’Conner .......................................................................................... 10

2016-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-2
66

Page 2

Listening note-taking sheet for podcast Nosing Around

Social History Museum (and directions)

Wang Chung Traditional Farmhouse and Village

Dr Jones’ Talk

Chang Yee Tak Plough

2016-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-3
67

Page 3

Email from Lara Gau to Indy Wong

To: Indy Wong
Sent: Fri 8 April 2016 3:14 AM
From: Lara Gau
Subject: Things to do

Hi Indy

How are things in Hong Kong? Mexico is great! I’ll tell you all about it when I get back. While I am away, I’ve got three things I need you to do.

I need you to write an email to reply to Ms Ip about our museum borrowing the Chang Yee Tak Plough. Have a look at her email and respond to her questions. It would also be great if we could photograph the plough - I want to put a photo of it on our new museum posters. Could you ask her?

We are working on the museum website. Please write a description for the website to introduce the traditional farmhouse from Wang Chung Village. Mention how the farmhouse was found and include some interesting facts about Wang Chung Village. Include a brief summary of the amazing story of the kitchen cupboard, which is in the farmhouse. People will love that story. Dr Jones said he would send a WhatsApp to give you some ideas.

I need you to write the main section of a report to the Museum Board, which covers the problems the museum has been having and the recommendations we would like to suggest. Please mention incidents which illustrate these problems. Start by looking at the email from Ms O’Conner and the minutes of the recent staff meeting. Since this report will be kept for official records it must be written in paragraph form.

Lara

Staff manual on borrowing of items

Section 3.2: Care of borrowed items

3.2.1 Displaying valuable borrowed items

All borrowed items must be displayed with some kind of cover. This is to protect the museum from being blamed for damage to items that may be caused by visitors touching or handling items without permission.

3.2.2 Transport

Movers with no experience or who are not trained in handling borrowed items must NOT be hired. Costs for the delivery and return of the item will be paid for by the museum.

3.2.3 Items requiring special security

Items which are on special loan and which will not be displayed in the museum display rooms must be stored in the large underground storage facility in the basement and must be securely stored under lock and key.

3.2.4 Insurance

All borrowed items must be insured by the museum prior to the finalisation of the transportation arrangements. Insurance will pay for any damage during the transport and display of the item.

2016-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-4
68

Page 4

Minutes from museum staff meeting

Staff meeting of the Hong Kong Social History Museum

Date: Tues. April 5, 2016
Venue: Museum Seminar Room 2

Chairperson: Dr Jack Jones, Director
Members: Limahl Howard, Building Management Director
         Lara Gau, Public Relations and Retail
Secretary: Cindy Lau

Minutes of meeting

Ms Gau said that she was still trying to obtain permission to borrow the Chang Yee Tak Plough and would be replying to an email about the loan. She asked for suggestions on how to reassure the lenders.

Dr Jones reminded Ms Gau that according to policy a glass cover must be placed over the plough and he suggested that a security guard should be permanently stationed by the plough. He added that this might persuade the lenders.

Ms Gau agreed that the glass cover had to be used but rejected the suggestion of a security guard. The other committee members agreed. She also asked whether full-time staff could be trained in the handling of valuable items in time for the plough’s arrival if consent from the lenders was given.

All committee members agreed to this proposal. It was also confirmed that all staff would be trained before the exhibition.

Dr Jones told Ms Gau and Mr Howard that the Museum Board were concerned about a number of incidents that had occurred recently at the museum and that the Board had requested a report. Dr Jones asked Ms Gau and Mr Howard to express their views on this matter.

Mr Howard voiced concerns about recent problems the museum has had with some visitors. According to a report from Mr Chow, the Senior Cleaning Officer, yesterday during the public holiday, 13 visitors were caught smoking in the toilets at different times.

Ms Gau asked whether the evacuation of the building yesterday afternoon was connected in any way to this.

Mr Howard concurred that this certainly had been the cause of the fire alarm being triggered.

Dr Jones mentioned a complaint received from the Committee for HK International Primary Schools. He recommended that in response to the complaint all members of staff should be ready to assist school groups at all times during their visit.

Ms Gau and Mr Howard agreed but pointed out that only full-time staff would be able to assist as part-time staff may finish their shift before the end of a given school group’s visit. Ms Gau added that part-time staff could help by making worksheets for school groups. Dr Jones agreed with the implementation of these points.

Mr Howard also referred the committee to the results of the online survey recently carried out in relation to points raised by the complainant.

Meeting ended 2:55pm.

2016-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-5
69

Page 5

Email from Ip Lai Ping from the Shun Yee Tak Village Hall

To: Lara Gau
Sent: Fri 1 April 2016 11:36 AM
From: Ip Lai Ping
Subject: Chang Yee Tak Plough

Dear Ms Gau

Thank you for your email requesting to borrow the Chang Yee Tak Plough. Before we can agree to your request, we need to find out more information from you.

Firstly, can you clarify why it is that you want to borrow the Chang Yee Tak Plough in particular?

Secondly, we need to check that the plough will be safe during its time there and what would happen if it was damaged or broken in any way. We are also concerned about its transportation (e.g. costs, experience of the movers).

I look forward to reading your reply on this matter.

Yours sincerely

Ms Ip Lai Ping
Head of Shun Yee Tak Village Hall
Shun Yee Tak
New Territories
Hong Kong

2016-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-6
70

Page 6

WhatsApp messages from the Social History Museum group

Dr Jack Jones

Lara told me to post some quick notes about Wang Chung Village: the farmhouse and the flood etc. Wang Chung Village / Reservoir - reservoir water levels at historic low → found farmhouse. The 1983 flood story: kitchen cupboard - 1983 - strange writing on left door. I interviewed somebody from the village who knew the story. A Mrs Wang. Here’s the link to the transcript of the interview: https://hkshm.org/researchproject14. She talks about the village as well.

8:08 AM

Dr Jack Jones

[photo of a traditional Chinese plough]

8:10 AM

Dr Jack Jones

This is a photo I got of a traditional Chinese plough. It’s actually the woman I interviewed’s father in the photo.

8:12 AM

Lara Gau

Changing the subject, I was thinking about the report about the smoking problems in the toilet. I was thinking, how about when the person opens the toilet door → play ‘no smoking’ announcement?

9:27AM

Dr Jack Jones

I like it. Yes! 👍👍

9:57AM

2016-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-7
71

Page 7

Transcript of interview with Wang Chung Village resident

https://hkshm.org/researchproject14

Dr Jones: Wang Chung Village was such a famous village. I have also heard many things about its pearl rice. Can you tell me any more about this?

Mrs Wang: Well, I remember my father would have buyers for this rice from all over China. But it wasn’t just him. All the farmers in our village did this. Our rice was in huge demand then, you know. Pearl rice was not cheap. It was a luxury even for rich families.

Dr Jones: Sadly, of course, we can’t see the village anymore, but can you describe what it was like?

Mrs Wang: Ah well, our village was so beautiful. Tourists from the city would come at the weekend to see the rice fields.

Dr Jones: Yes, the “S”-shaped fields. I’ve some photos of them. Truly beautiful.

Mrs Wang: I remember the great flood of Wang Chung Village, you know.

Dr Jones: Really? Typhoon Ellen in 1983?

Mrs Wang: I think so. The two girls who survived on the kitchen cupboard? I knew them. Good little girls. Very pious. Their mother told me about what happened.

Dr Jones: Did she tell you about the markings on the cupboard door?

Mrs Wang: Yes. A prayer, a prayer to Guanyin.

Dr Jones: Well, I’ll be. The Goddess of Mercy. They carved it on the right door of the cupboard?

Mrs Wang: No, she told me it was the left. They carved it when they were waiting to be rescued.

Dr Jones: Oh really? My mistake then. Now, after 1990 you moved to your present home in Fanling. Was that a big change?

Mrs Wang: Well, of course there were some things from before that I missed a lot. Especially to begin with. The first few years I found it quite difficult to adapt to city life. But Fanling is a lovely place. There’s so much I can do here. I’m a member of the residents’ association on the estate. I am really involved in that and I like helping others on the estate. You might not believe it but I’m 79 this year. But there are others younger than me that need help so I do all I can. And in the end it’s family and friends that are important and I’m lucky. I have 14 grandchildren and one great granddaughter. I had family and friends in Wang Chung and still have them now I’m in Fanling.

[Recording ends]

2016-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-8
72

Page 8

Article from Hong Kong News August 30, 1983

Living on a prayer

By Jovi Bon
30th August 1983

The death and destruction brought by Typhoon Ellen had a happy twist in its tornado’s tale yesterday when two young sisters were miraculously found alive after fears the pair had drowned. Man Yee (7) and Man Ching (9) Lee were found clinging to the family’s kitchen cupboard as it floated in flood waters. They had survived for two days on the wooden cupboard while waiting for help after their home had been struck by a flash flood.

“They asked Guanyin to save them and she answered their prayers,” Mrs Lee, mother of the two girls, said.

The two girls were reunited with their mother and father last night after rescuers found them in a flooded rice field near a farm in the far north-west of the New Territories.

Question Wizard online survey results of museum visitors

Issue: No. of signs
Responses:
Too many: 3
Satisfactory: 436
Not enough: 13

Issue: Size of letters on signs
Responses:
Too big: 7
Satisfactory: 33
Too small: 344

Issue: Colour of signs
Responses:
Eye-catching: 34
Satisfactory: 1
Not eye-catching: 401

2016-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-9
73

Page 9

Email from Ms O’Conner

To: Jack Jones
Sent: Sat 2 April 2016 8:46 AM
From: S. O’Conner
Subject: School visits to the Social History Museum

Dear Dr Jones

I am writing on behalf of The Committee for Hong Kong International Primary Schools to make known to you the concerns we have about school visits to the Social History Museum.

First, I would like to draw your attention to concerns I have about how safe your museum is for children. I refer to something that happened on our visit when a girl from our school fell off your large plastic ox and broke her arm. The fault lies with your museum. Frankly speaking, the exhibits are too boring for the average primary school student. You should at least consider having some exhibits that children can interact with safely. Don’t you think there should be more museum staff to help out our teachers?

I have also been told by other members of the committee that the signage in the museum is inadequate. On our visit, because of this, one group of our teachers and students found themselves lost in the basement of your museum at closing time. I suggest you look into the matter.

We hope that you can address these points at some point soon or at least respond to the concerns of our committee. Remember these children are the potential adult visitors that will ensure your museum’s future.

I look forward to your prompt reply.

Yours sincerely

Ms O’Conner
Headmistress of St. Sinead’s Girls School
Chair of the Committee for Hong Kong International Primary Schools

THIS IS THE LAST PAGE OF THE PART B2 DATA FILE

Sources of materials used in this paper will be acknowledged in the Examination Report and Question Papers published by the Hong Kong Examinations and Assessment Authority at a later stage.

2016-DSE-ENG LANG 3-B2-DF-10
74
